To export selected features in
QGIS, the first thing you need
to do is run the required
selection on your data.
In this video we will go over
how to export features selected
by the location of Ziama.
So we're going to run a
selection like we did previously
in this course.
So we can either access the
Select by Location button in the
selection toolbar up here, or we
can search for the for it within
the Processing toolbox.
So we'd bring up the toolbox
here and search.
So bring up the Select by
Location tool and we want to
select features from the
projected points to make sure
that that is in the top box and
we want to choose where features
are within like last time and
it's going to be with inside
Ziama protected area for this
selection when we ran this tool
last time we had to use this
spanner button here because our
data was not in the same
projection and so we had to set
an option to bypass this.
If you haven't projected your
layers yet then what you'll need
to do is click on the spanner
icon here and then in the drop
down box choose the Do not
filter option.
And now we want to make sure
that it says we're creating a
new selection and then we can
hit run and run the tool.
And if we exit this window we
can see that this has selected
the sighting points within Ziama
protected area.
So now we want to export these
selected points.
So to do that, we will right
click on our projected points
layer, hover over export and
click the Save selected features
as option and now we can choose
where we want to save it.
So the format needs to be
Geopackage to save it into our
project Geopackage and we can
click on these three dots here
to choose the Geopackage to save
it into.
So we're in our Hippogriffs
folder and we're going to save
it into our Hippogriffs
Geopackage.
So we can double click on this
and then in layer name we can
choose the name of the layer
that we're going to create, so
we can call it Ziama sightings.
Our coordinate reference system
is set to the one that we need.
So that's fine and we don't need
to worry about the other options
here.
So we can just click OK and once
that loads we can see it in our
layers list.
We can turn off the projected
points layer and we can see that
this exported layer that we have
created is just the sighting
points in Ziama.
So that's how to export selected
features in QGIS.
So now do the same for Wonegizi
and Wologizi.